# PulmonaryCFD
This repository includes the simulations and setups for 3D CFD simulations

There are three main directories included here:
1) SingleBif ---> This is a case for a single bifurcation which the mesh for it was created using ICEMCFD (Ansys). This was coverted to OpenFoam (OF) mesh within OF and a steady-state simulation was performed with constant boundary conditions.
2) Bifurcations ----> This has a mesh setup using a surface stl for a mesh having the 3rd generation bifurcations (4 outlet branches). The mesh was created using snappyHexMesh and the results are within the folder.
3) BIF_CFMesh ----> Using a perpendicular capped stl file similar to Bifurcations case. Although the mesh has been created using CfMesh for simulations. This case has the best mesh quality among all cases mentioned. This case has the option of showing residuals (for following the convergence while simulation is running - the functions is included in controlDict). Also, it has the parabolic velocity profile function in U (velocity) initial boundary condition but currently is commented out since the plots in the case folder are relevant to uniform inlet BC.
4) gmsh_bif ----> This folder includes the airway bifurcation created with 1D to 2D centerline code in lungsim and volume mesh created using GMSH application. The mesh created by GMSH is tetrahedtal mesh and then imported to OpenFOAM for simulation.
5) gmsh_cf ----> The surface mesh of the airway was created from 1D centerline to 2D in lungsim. The STL surface was read into CFMesh in OpenFOAM to create a hex dominant mesh in the whole fluid domain with boundary layer next to walls. Simulations performed with simpleFOAM steady solver.
6) CTEPH6 ----> The geometry of the first bifurcation of the Main pulmonary artery was created in Lungsim from 1D centerline. Volume mesh is a tetrahedral type generated using GMSH. The mesh was then imported to OpenFOAM and simulations performed. This is the subject CTEPH6 which was perfomed from scratch by Behdad.
